the cuckoo chick has just hatched and
now the reed Warblers have lost
everything their lives will be totally
dominated by this impostor and there is
nothing they can do about it
just 24 hours old and still naked and
blind the cuckoo chick instinctively
pushes out any other eggs in the nest so
why is it left to the newborn hatchling
to take on this Herculean task
you might think that one of the things
the female cook who could do is simply
remove all the host eggs and leave her
egg instead well the host laws desert a
single egg so she can't do that and that
explains very nicely why it's the young
cuckoo it has to take on this task of
rejecting the host eggs because although
the hosts always desert a single egg
they never desert a single chick the
cuckoo chick is astonishing this strong
and has a distinctive hollow back that
helps balance the hosts egg or chick
before throwing it out of the nest
noting the little ogre does alarms the
foster parents even when their own eggs
are being forced out of the nest from
right beneath them the simple fact is
that a Warbler nest won't be big enough
to hold both Reed Warbler chicks and the
growing cuckoo chick the imposter will
need all the food that its adopted
parents can bring
sometimes the reed Warblers eggs are
more advanced and both Warbler and
cuckoo chicks hatch together again it
falls to the blind cuckoo chick to deal
with the situation
[Music]